.\"
.\"Copyright (c) 1991-1994  Sony Corporation
.\"
.\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\"a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\""Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\"without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\"distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\"permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\"the following conditions:
.\"
.\"The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\"included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\"MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\"IN NO EVENT SHALL SONY CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\"DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\"OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\"THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"Except as contained in this notice, the name of Sony Corporation
.\"shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\"or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\"from Sony Corporation.
.\"
.\"$SonyRCSfile: sj3.1,v $
.\"$SonyRevision: 1.1 $
.\"$SonyDate: 1994/06/03 08:00:50 $
.\"
.\" Japanese input frontend processor
.TH SJ3 1 "October 1990"
.SH 名称
sj3 \- 日本語入力フロントエンドプロセッサ
.SH 形式
.B sj3
[ \fB\-f\fP shell ] [ \fB\-h\fP ] [ \fB\-H\fP hostname ...] [ \fB\-L\fP ]
[ \fB-o\fP ] [ \fB\-e\fP program [ arguments ...]]
.SH 解説
.I sj3
は、仮名漢字変換サーバ
.IR " sj3serv" (1)
とソケットを使用したプロセス間通信により仮名漢字変換を
行う日本語入力フロントエンドプロセッサです。
.PP
.I sj3
はターミナル上で起動し、ターミナルから入力されたローマ字もしくは
半角カタカナを仮名漢字変換します。そして変換結果を、
.I sj3
上で動かしているアプリケーションに渡します。
.PP
.I sj3
は起動時にホームディレクトリ内の‘.sjrc’というセットアップ
ファイルを読み込み、その設定に従って動作をします。このファイルがなければ
デフォルトの動作をします。
また
.I " sj3
のローマ字仮名変換は、ホームディレクトリ内の‘.sjrk’ファイルで定義されて
いる規則に従います。このファイルがなければ、デフォルトの定義ファイル
の規則に従います。
.SH オプション
.TP
.BI \-f " shell"
このオプションは、
.I sj3
起動時に実行されるシェルを指定します。デフォルトは
.I " /bin/csh
です。
.TP
.BI \-h
オプションの説明を表示し、
.I sj3
は起動しません。
.TP
.BI \-H " hostname \.\.\."
このオプションは、接続するサーバとなるホスト名リストを指定します。
サーバとなるホストを複数指定した場合、その順番に接続を試みます。
このオプションが省略され、環境変数
.B " SJ3SERV
もしくはセットアップファイル
でもサーバの指定がなければ、localhost 上のサーバとの接続を試みます。
すべてのサーバとの接続が出来なかった場合でも
.I " sj3
は起動しますが、仮名漢字変換はできません。
.TP
.BI \-L
このオプションは、起動されるシェルをログインシェルとすることを示します。
.TP
.BI \-o
このオプションは、使用しているキーボードが NWP-410 であることを示します。
.TP
.BI \-e " program \[arguments \.\.\.\]"
このオプションは、
.I sj3
起動時に実行されるプログラム及びその引数を指定します。
.ft B
これは、コマンド行上の最後のオプションでなければなりません。
.SH 環境変数
.TP 15
.B SJ3SERV
接続するサーバとなるホスト名リストを取得します。
.TP 15
.B SJRC
セットアップファイルのファイル名を取得します。
.TP 15
.B SJRK
ローマ字仮名変換規則定義ファイルのファイル名を取得します。
.SH 関連ファイル
.PD 0
.TP 15
/usr/dict/sj3/user/$USER/private.dic
仮名漢字変換ユーザ辞書
.TP
/usr/dict/sj3/user/$USER/study.dat
仮名漢字変換学習ファイル
.TP
/usr/lib/sj3/sjrk
デフォルトローマ字仮名変換規則定義ファイル
.SH 関連事項
sj3serv(1), sj3lib(3) 
