.\"
.\"Copyright (c) 1991-1994  Sony Corporation
.\"
.\"Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\"a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\""Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\"without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\"distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\"permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\"the following conditions:
.\"
.\"The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\"included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\"THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\"EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\"MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\"IN NO EVENT SHALL SONY CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\"DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
.\"OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR
.\"THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\"Except as contained in this notice, the name of Sony Corporation
.\"shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\"or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\"from Sony Corporation.
.\"
.\"Author: Noriyuki Hosoe, Sony Corporation
.\"
.\"$SonyRCSfile: sj3serv.1,v $
.\"$SonyRevision: 1.1 $
.\"$SonyDate: 1994/06/03 08:00:52 $
.\"
.\" Server of Japanese input frontent processor
.TH SJ3SERV 1 "October 1990"
.SH 名称
sj3serv \- 仮名漢字変換サーバ
.SH 形式
.B sj3serv
[ \fB\-f\fP filename ]
.SH 解説
\fIsj3serv\fP は、ソケットを使用したプロセス間通信により仮名漢字変換を
行なう、仮名漢字変換サーバです。
.SH オプション
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
このオプションは、\fIsj3serv\fP の読み込むセットアップファイルを指定します。
.br
\fIsj3serv\fP はデフォルトではセットアップファイル
‘/usr/local/lib/sj3/serverrc’を読み込みますが、
このオプションが指定されたときにはかわりに
コマンドラインで指定されたセットアップファイルを読み込みます。
.br
.SH 関連ファイル
.PD 0
.TP \w'\ \ \ \ user/\fIusername\fP/private.dic'u+2n
/usr/local/lib/sj3/serverrc
デフォルト仮名変換サーバ セットアップファイル
.TP
/usr/local/lib/sj3/dict/
かな漢字変換サーバ デフォルト辞書ディレクトリ
.TP
    sj3main.dic
仮名漢字変換メイン辞書
.TP
    user/\fIusername\fP/private.dic
仮名漢字変換ユーザ辞書
.TP
    user/\fIusername\fP/study.dat
仮名漢字変換学習ファイル

.SH 関連事項
sj3(1), sj3lib(3) 

.SH バグ
変換ルーチン内での辞書の識別には、辞書ファイルの inode 番号を
使用しています。コピーなどにより辞書ファイルの inode 番号が
変更されると、文節学習データは失われます。
